[DOC] Procedure for upgrading AMQ Streams on RHEL (#40)
rh-messaging/amq-streams-docs: books/proc-updating-kafka-brokers-to-previous-protocol-versions.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// assembly-upgrade-1-1-0.adoc

[id='proc-updating-kafka-brokers-to-previous-protocol-versions-{context}']

= Updating Kafka brokers to the previous protocol versions

Manually configure and restart all the Kafka brokers in your cluster to use the previous inter-broker protocol and message format versions (2.0). These are the versions that were used in {ProductName} 1.0 and Kafka 2.0.

> NOTE: Update and restart the Kafka brokers one-by-one. Before you restart a modified broker, stop the broker you configured and restarted previously.

Reviewer: I don't understand this:

> Before you restart a modified broker, stop the broker you configured and restarted previously.

Reviewer 2: +1. Please reword to be more specific.

Author: @PaulRMellor - I added the "for all brokers" statement to the start of the procedure.

.Prerequisites

* You have updated the Zookeeper binaries.
* You are logged in to Red Hat Enterprise Linux as the `kafka` user.

.Procedure

. In a text editor, open the broker properties file for the Kafka broker you want to update. Broker properties files are commonly stored in the `/opt/kafka/config/` directory.

> . Temporarily override the default inter-broker protocol and message format versions for Kafka 2.1.1 by adding the following new properties to the file:

Reviewer: Strictly speaking these might already exist in the file for some reason.

```suggestion
. Temporarily override the default inter-broker protocol and message format versions for Kafka 2.1.1 by adding or updating the following properties to the file:
```

+
[source,shell,subs=+quotes]
----
inter.broker.protocol.version=2.0
log.message.format.version=2.0
----
+
This configures the Kafka broker to process data using the previous inter-broker protocol and message format versions.

> . On the command line, stop the Kafka broker that you most recently modified and restarted as part of this procedure. If you are modifying the first Kafka broker of this procedure, go to step four.

Reviewer: I don't understand this. The user would edit the Kafka config of a particular broker and then stop and restart that same broker. Typically both these operations would be done while logged into whatever server has the broker running on it. In other words they:

1. Log in over `ssh`
2. Edit the file.
3. Stop the broker.
4. Restart the broker.
5. Exit that `ssh` session.

And repeat on each server.

Author: Combined this topic with proc-upgrading-kafka-brokers-to-amq-streams-1-1-0
